This is the Thames, the river that flows through London.
In the 19th, the Thames stank
Literally.
The flush toilet was invented, but the sewerage not yet
which meant that all the afal was immediately flushed into the Thames.
To make things worse, the Thames also has tides
So it did not always go directly to the sea
Sometimes it came back
Actually, it is more wrapped up
because salt water is heavier
so it went kind of ....
does not matter
what does matter is that Joseph Bagel
Joseph Bazalgette!
I keep blessing "Bagelgette"
a fantastic Victorian engineer with a huge, ridiculous mustache
built the largest riol system
that now the most waste flushes away
Included, here under "The Embankment"
But that was built for a 19th century London
and has not changed in the 20th
And now this is such a big city
that there is not enough capacity
So here is something that you may not have known
In the Themes until today
sometimes unfiltered waste water muzzled.
After a big rain storm, when it has rained for days to one
and there is just too much water to filter out.
They pump it in the Thames
And that is something you may not have known.
That the Thames still has some stench from the 19th
Translated by Sam Mellor